+++
title =  "About me"
date = 2017-01-01

[taxonomies]
tags = ["personal"]
+++

Hi. My name is Raul and I am an individual passionate about building the decentralized web and contributing to a future where privacy-centric technology swings the pendulum back to the original promise of the Internet and empowers personal freedom.

> "why we make the things we make says a lot about us"
>
>   - Anonymous

Born and raised in San Pedro Sula, Honduras, I studied Computer Science at Harvard University, where I learned how important it is to harness the power of machines to build technology the world can benefit from.

I started a company called Prysmatic Labs with my co-founder Preston Van Loon working on implementing the core of Ethereum blockchain protocol, including its major scalability upgrades using cutting-edge research such as Proof of Stake and Sharding. My team has received significant funding to achieve our vision. We have created a project named Prysm fully open source as a Go implementation of Ethereum Proof of Stake. Today, our software is the most popular node client to run the Ethereum blockchain, powering its consensus engine.

While at Harvard, I received the Thiel Fellowship: a $100k grant that allowed me to take off from school to pursue my passions. Thanks to the fellowship, I got into Ethereum and now I am a blockchain developer interested in building core improvements to the protocol.

My company, Prysmatic Labs, was acquired by Offchain Labs, the team behind the Arbitrum scaling solution to Ethereum. Arbitrum is the most popular Layer-2 project on Ethereum today.

I am currently based in Atlanta, where I enjoy spending time in nature with my awesome wife Jiaqi and our cat, Buster.
