---
layout: post
title:  "About Me"
preview: My story so far
description: My story so far
date: 2017-Jan-01
tags: 
  - introduction
---

Hi. My name is Raul and I am an individual passionate about building the decentralized web and contributing to a future where privacy-centric technology swings the pendulum back to the original promise of the Internet and empowers personal freedom.

> "why we make the things we make says a lot about us"
>
>   - Anonymous

Born and raised in San Pedro Sula, Honduras, I studied Computer Science at Harvard University, where I learned how important it is to harness the power of machines to build technology the world can benefit from.

I started a company called [Prysmatic Labs](https://prysmaticlabs.com) with my co-founder [Preston Van Loon](https://github.com/prestonvanloon) working on implementing the core of Ethereum blockchain protocol, including its major scalability upgrades using cutting-edge research such as Proof of Stake and Sharding. My team has received significant funding to achieve our vision. We have created a project named [Prysm](https://github.com/prysmaticlabs/prysm) fully open source as a Go implementation of [Ethereum Proof of Stake](https://consensys.net/knowledge-base/ethereum-2/faq/). Today, our software is the most popular node client to run the Ethereum blockchain.

While at Harvard, I co-founded a company called Kynplex that made it easy for anyone to stay updated on the latest scientific trends. In 2016, I received the Thiel Fellowship: a $100k grant that allowed me to take 2 years off school to pursue my passions. Thanks to the fellowship, I got into Ethereum and now I am a blockchain developer interested in building core improvements to the protocol. 

I am currently based in Atlanta, where I enjoy spending time in nature with my awesome wife and cat, Buster.
